# Bookstore

A command line bookstore system by Ancker-0. Homework for ACM class.

## Libraries

We (will) implement the following libraries

+ [`match.h`](../src/match.h): A subset of regex, to allow user queries.
+ [`fs.h`](../src/fs.h): Memory river. Provides basic file system operation.
+ [`validator.h`](../src/validator.h): Check parameters given by user.
+ [`database.h`](../src/database.h): Database, as the name suggests.
+ [`logs.h`](../src/database.h): The log system, along with pretty printing. Implement colorful printing if time permits.
+ [`account.h`](../src/account.h): Provides support for account and privilege management, as well as login status.
+ [`bookstore.h`](../src/bookstore.h): The main part of bookstore.
+ [`ci.h`](../src/ci.h): Commandline interface for bookstore. Simple keyboard shortcuts aided for editing may be implemented if time permits.

## Database schema

We have several databases: account, log system (including finance, clerk, system), book information.

A database has an *index* and several *fields* (both always having **fixed length**) along with a *comparation function* to compare *indices*~~, and an optional *equality function* to test the equality of two *entries*~~. An *entry* is an instance in the database, which contains corresponding *index* and *fields*. An *index* may have several corresponding *entries*, stored in the order they are inserted into the database.

To be exact, one of our databases consists of exactly one table, which means we may use one seperate file for each database.

### `account`

The *index* for `account` is `UserID(30)`. We have the following fields:

+ `privilege(1)`: an integer among 0, 1, 3, 7.
+ `password(??)`: a hashed string of password.
+ `identity(10)`: (optional?) a string among "admin", "clerk", "customer" and "guest".

### `book`

The *index* for `book` is `ISBN(20)`. We have the following fields:

+ `BookName(60)`
+ `Author(60)`
+ `Keyword(60)`
+ `Quantity(4)`: An 32-bit unsigned integer
+ `Price(8)`: A number of type `double`
+ `TotalCost(8)`: A number of type `double`

### `log-finance`

The *index* for `log-finance` is `timestamp(4)`. We have the following fields:

### `log-clerk`

The *index* for `log-finance` is `timestamp(4)`. We have the following fields:

### `log-system`

The *index* for `log-finance` is `timestamp(4)`. We have the following fields:

## The main logic

`ci.h` handles user input, check the validity of parameters, and pass the parameter to call the corresponding functions. The called function, however, might also check the validity of parameter, and throw error if unexpected input occurs. The interaction protocol can be seen in [标准要求](https://github.com/ACMClassCourse-2024/Bookstore-2024/blob/main/%E6%A0%87%E5%87%86%E8%A6%81%E6%B1%82.md).

`account.h` exports a default value `account` of class `Account`, to support the stack-like account management.

`log.h` has 3 log levels: info, warning, error.
